[Claire] Previously...
I cannot admit there's
anything to do...
but go on.
[Jamie] That will be where
the new house will stand.
We will make it
back here one day.
-Won't we?
-Aye. We will.
[soft music plays]
Allow me to introduce
William Buccleigh MacKenzie.
Your servant. Madam.
T'was at Craigh na Dun.
And here I am.
Rob Cameron.
He did it. Rob took Jem.
-[gunshot]
-[yelps]
It's Rob!
Callahan!
Brianna!
[Brianna]
So. where do we belong now?
So it's not a question
of where we belong; it's when.
[Lord John]
Your son is due home shortly.
Son?
What we really want
is your protection.
Where's Jane?
Major Jenkins said that
she killed Captain Harkness
and dragged her away.
[Jamie] We need to go.
You can come and live
with us on the Ridge.
You'll be safe.
Who was thy wife?
Her name is Wahionhaweh.
Emily chose me. but. Rachel.
with my whole soul.
I choose you.
[Rachel] A place where...
we could raise our family.
You mean...?
♪ ♪
I have had carnal knowledge
of your wife.
Henry and Ben will be fighting
across the sea.
Do you want to have
to tell your wife
that your sons
have died in a war
-that could have been stopped?
-[gunfire]
[screaming]
[tense music plays]
♪ ♪
[gasps]
I'll do my best by thee.
Can we go home?
You're not going back
to the army?
No.
I came to ask...
forgiveness.
[Claire] ♪ Beside the seaside ♪
♪ Oh. I do like to be ♪
♪ Beside the sea ♪
[Fanny]
♪ So just let me be ♪
♪ Beside the seaside ♪
How could you possibly know
that song?
♪ ♪
My mother taught it to me.
I think Faith lived.
I think our daughter lived.
[cries]
♪ ♪
Where the bloody hell is he?
He'll come.
No smuggler worth his salt
would miss the chance
to sell thirty barrels
of good whisky.
Well. I just hope
he doesn't get close enough
to smell the herring.
I willna allow it.
Much as I love the sound
of your voice. Sassenach.
try not to speak
unless spoken to.
[banging on door]
[sighs]
[tense music plays]
♪ ♪
You have exquisite taste.
Mr. Roy.
Aye.
You'll no' have trouble
finding buyers in the north.
Armies there will be thirsty.
You'll easily double
your investment.
[Vasquez] Who gave you my name?
Mrs. Abbott in Philadelphia.
Do you often take
business advice from whores?
[Jamie] Mrs. Abbott tells me
ye're a man to be trusted.
Recalls ye didna have
the money to pay your debts.
and it took ye a wee while.
but. uh.
ye returned with something
much better than coin...
...two lassies
to settle your score.
Sí.
Así es.
Whisky wasn't the only reason
I wanted to meet. Mr. Vasquez.
I wish to expand my business.
Tell me. where do you
find the girls?
It so happens
I found them at sea.
My men and I were looking
for a ship heavy with goods.
But the captain-
Pocock was his name-
was foolish enough
to bring his family--
a wife...
and two daughters.
With my knife
as encouragement.
he was willing to part
with the cargo
but not so willing
to part with the girls.
So I was forced
to slit his throat.
One of the daughters was
still too young to earn.
Even the smallest man
would tear her to pieces.
But with that face
and those golden curls.
I knew she would soon command
a premium--
an assurance for the future.
But her sister
was ripe and ready.
I don't think
she had ever seen a cock
before I stuck her with mine.
That one will have paid
my debts
a hundred times over by now.
But the captain's wife--
ooh. she would have brought
a pretty penny herself.
Beautiful. wild hair.
skin like velvet.
It's a shame I never
had a chance to fuck her.
She turned into a rabid dog
when I touched her daughter.
scratching. biting.
screaming--too much trouble.
I threw her overboard.
Only death would shut her up.
[laughing]
[groaning]
♪ ♪
[panting]
We need to leave. Sassenach.
♪ ♪
I killed him too quickly.
I should have let
that bastard suffer.
I should have made him
feel every ounce of agony
the body can feel.
And even then--
and even then. it wouldn't be
punishment enough.
Aye. well. the devil
will give him his proper due
for what he did
to Jane and Frances
and Faith.
She was alive.
We could have had
a-a life with her.
and he robbed us
of that chance.
[Jamie] He wasn't the only one.
Ye told me ye held our babe
in ye're hands
all those years ago.
that she was stillborn.
already lost to us.
So how did she come to be
married to a sea captain
-wi' two daughters of her own?
-I don't know.
I don't know.
Mother Hildegarde. I mean.
she must have done something
or...
Master Raymond.
He asked for my forgiveness.
but for what?
Somebody lied.
But why?
W-why would they steal
our child from us?
I always imagined
our daughter in heaven.
I mourned an innocent soul
who hadna had a chance at life.
Then to find out she lived
but that her life
was cut short...
A Dhia.
♪ ♪
She was out there. Jamie.
What did her laugh sound like?
Well. did she--
did she smile in her sleep.
like you and Bree?
[crying]
Who helped her when she cried?
Oh. God.
[crying]
What- what if nobody did?
What- what if she went
through her whole life
thinking that nobody
wanted her. when--
when all we wanted more than
anything in the world was her?
[crying]
♪ ♪
You lost your parents
at a young age.
mo nighean donn...
...wandered the world rootless.
but then we found each other.
♪ ♪
I am the true home
of your heart.
Maybe it was the same
for our daughter.
Maybe she wandered. too.
and found her home.
Made a family.
♪ ♪
She was loved. Claire.
I have to believe that.
[Claire crying softly]
♪ ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain ♪
♪ And sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over ♪
♪ The sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
[typewriter keys clacking]
[seagulls crying]
[distant hoofbeats]
[breathing deeply]
[inhales sharply]
Have you managed
to sleep at all?
[sighs] No.
Not wi' thinkin'
about our Faith...
...and all that
we still dinna ken.
[pensive music plays]
♪ ♪
-I wish Fanny remembered more.
-Ah.
Aye. she couldna have been
more than five years old
when she was sold
to the brothel.
We shouldn't press her.
She's already suffered
more than any child should.
First her parents...
Jane.
D'ye think we should tell her?
That she's our granddaughter?
How can we explain it to her
when we don't know
how it's possible ourselves?
She might not believe us.
And then we'll have broken
whatever trust
she started having in us.
It's no small miracle
that a piece of Faith
came to be in our lives...
her daughter.
Despite all we've lost.
we can thank the Lord
for that blessing.
[footsteps approaching.
child giggles]
-[Jamie] Ah.
-[Claire sighs]
[faint giggling continues]
[clears throat. sighs]
♪ ♪
Aha!
Good morning.
Grand-père. Grand-mère.
Come down for breakfast.
[Marsali] Did I or did I not
tell ye wee heathens
to let your grandparents sleep?
Now. get away
from there before--
Oh.
Yes. good morning to ye both.
There's some coffee
and a wee bit o' parritch
downstairs when ye're ready.
Sounds wonderful.
Thank you. Marsali.
Aye. and since ye're up.
I wouldn't mind a hand
with the press.
We'll be down shortly.
mon fils.
I'm. uh. eager to see
this workshop of yours.
♪ ♪
[door closes]
-Oh.
-Hmm.
♪ ♪
We were so newly arrived when
the British took over the city.
we had not yet begun
printing the newspaper.
Now I'm careful to be perfectly
impartial in its pages.
if not a bit more complimentary
to the British Army
than they deserve.
[Jamie] Ah. wise choice...
Ah. [chuckles]
...as they may question
the loyalty of a Frenchman.
Indeed.
It also helps that it was
a regiment of Highlanders
who captured Savannah
for the British.
And I happened to have
a Scottish wife...
and the name Fraser
above the door.
For that. I'm forgiven
a multitude of sins.
[knocks on wall]
[hollow knocking]
[soft tense music plays]
[thumping]
♪ ♪
But the British
dinna forgive sedition.
Well. I better not
get caught. then.
Don't worry.
I'm doing everything
you taught me.
Difference is.
you have a family now.
Oui. You had a family then.
And they were safe
in the Highlands.
not wi' me in Edinburgh.
There wasna a war then.
Which is why this work
is even more vital
than what we did before.
Which is why it's also
more dangerous.
In these times.
there's little one can do
that isn't dangerous.
If I'm going to be killed
for something.
I should like it to be
something that matters.
[speaking French]
[sighs sharply]
♪ ♪
Just promise me
ye'll be careful.
Toujours.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
[chuckling]
Why didn't Uncle Ian
come with you. Grand-pére?
Ah. he very much wanted
to see you. a bhalaich.
but your new auntie Rachel
is with child.
so he was eager to get her
settled back on the Ridge.
I canna fault him for that.
given the luck he's had
with bairns.
Cookies for breakfast!
[all cheering]
Well. what are grannies for?
Mmm.
[grunting]
-Now. there you go.
-Ooh. Uh...
-three dozen all for me.
-Hey!
How do you do that?
Oh. it's not difficult.
Sassenach.
It's easier than
counting goats and sheep.
After all. cookies
dinna have legs. huh. hmm?
-Legs?
-Aye.
Ah. to know how many
goats ye have.
ye must count all the legs
and divide by four.
[chuckling]
Maybe Fanny would be so kind
as to help ye all count out
the morning deliveries
before the news
goes stale. hmm?
Come on. lad.
[all chuckling]
-Thanks. Granny.
-Mwah. You're welcome.
[Jamie] Oh. Aye. help yourself.
[laughter]
Henri-Christian
seems to be thriving.
Aye.
He's our joy. our wee lad.
Fanny's a sweet lass.
[sighs] And bright. too.
She seems remarkably unspoiled
for one who grew up
in a brothel.
Aye. her sister protected
her innocence and virtue.
so far as she could.
Still. it cannot be easy
for her.
A brothel is not
an ideal place for a child.
but it is home if that's
the only home she's known.
To lose that
and her sister as well...
That's why we canna stay
much longer.
I made a promise
to Frances and to Claire.
[chuckles]
'Tis time to go home.
But we will miss
you all terribly.
We'll miss you. too.
But it won't be goodbye.
only au revoir.
[chuckles]
[majestic music plays]
♪ ♪
[Fanny] Are we nearly there?
[gasps] When will we get
to Fraser's Ridge?
[Jamie] We've been on
the Ridge the past two days.
You mean all of this is yours?
Aye. a leannain.
'Tis ours. as far as
ye're eyes can see.
[Claire] This is our home.
Your home.
♪ ♪
[baby crying]
[Lord John]
You woke the baby. damn you!
[grunts]
[Lt. Graves] This man was taken
into our custody
during an altercation with a
band of rebels outside of town.
He claims to be
the ninth Earl of Ellesmere
and a former soldier
in His Majesty's Army.
Captain.
I was a captain
in His Majesty's Army
before I resigned
my commission.
[Graves]
We believe him to be a spy.
He assured us you could offer
some clarity on the matter.
Yes.
I understand the confusion.
given as His Lordship currently
appears more like a highwayman
than an earl.
But I assure you. he is.
in fact. who he says he is.
He poses no threat
to our country...
-[baby fusses]
-Shh.
...or our cause.
Then I am satisfied.
Apologies for the intrusion.
My Lord.
Good day to you.
♪ ♪
-Little fiend is teething.
-[door opens]
And the lack of sleep
won't improve his temper.
-Yours?
-[door closes]
Surely. you jest.
[laughs]
Allow me to introduce
Trevor Wattiswade Grey.
your cousin Benjamin's son.
[gagging. retching]
[spits. coughing]
[Fanny]
This is where you lived?
[chuckles]
Ah. it's so overgrown now.
I can hardly believe
there was a fire here
if I hadn't seen it myself.
The earth takes
everything back in the end.
[carriage approaching]
Ah!
-Ian!
-[Jamie chuckles]
A bhalaich!
-Auntie. Uncle.
-[Jamie] A bhalaich.
[chuckling]
And you remember Frances.
of course.
Aye. Welcome to Fraser's Ridge.
And Rachel? Has the baby...?
The bairn hasna come yet.
Rachel will be most pleased
to see ye.
But first. will ye lend me
a hand with this?
Aye.
♪ ♪
What have you done
to the corncrib. lad?
And where are the stables?
Ah. Follow me.
I've something to show you.
♪ ♪
What in God's name
happened to you?
A rumor reached me
that a turncoat captain
may have been fighting
with the rebels
when our troops
captured the city.
And you thought that captain
was Ezekiel Richardson?
I came to find out.
None of the rebels
would speak to me
until I suggested ale
and a game of brag.
And did you manage
to learn the whereabouts
of that traitorous bastard?
I'm sorry.
Did you say that was
my cousin's baby?
Ben's got a baby?
And a wife.
I had no idea.
but I'm glad he's here.
I'll be most pleased
to see him.
H-has his regiment
been transferred?
He's. um...
not here.
William. I am...
...I'm very sorry
to tell you that...
Ben is dead.
[breathing shakily]
No. that's impossible.
He was taken prisoner
while out with a raiding party
and held by rebels
at Middlebrook encampment
in New Jersey.
[somber music plays]
There was...
an outbreak of jail fever.
♪ ♪
I was...
terribly saddened
to hear the news...
...as I knew you would be. too.
I know how much
you looked up to him.
Who was the commander
of this raiding party?
How was Ben captured?
Were any of his comrades
taken with him?
♪ ♪
I've given you
all the information I have.
Does Uncle Hal know?
Does Henry?
Not yet.
I've drafted a letter
to my brother
half a dozen times.
But I'm afraid
once he finds out
that his eldest and favorite
son is dead. then...
he will die
of heartbreak. and...
I do not think
I could bear that.
And the child?
Not long
after I'd received news
of Benjamin's death.
a young lady appeared
on my doorstep with her baby.
claiming she was. um.
Benjamin's widow.
Seems the young Lady Grey
had fallen
into difficult circumstances.
owing to her husband's absence.
And so. um...
I invited her to stay.
Wait.
You'd never heard of this wife
until after you received word
of Ben's death?
[scoffs]
No. I-I don't believe it.
If-if Ben were married.
he would have told me.
When is the last time
you received a letter from Ben?
I'll admit. I allowed
our correspondence to lapse
after...
everything that happened
last year. but...
but he would have told
his brother.
And Henry never
mentioned anything.
The young lady arrived
with a bundle of love letters.
all sealed
with Benjamin's signet ring.
And the boy's name. Wattiswade.
is a family name
not commonly known.
I believe her claim.
Any charlatan hoping to profit
off our family's grief
could falsify love letters.
Clearly. you've been hoodwinked
by some--
some damn woman.
Some damn woman. am I?
[tense music plays]
♪ ♪
William. may I present
Amaranthus. Viscountess Grey.
Benjamin's widow.
Ben did speak
of a Cousin William.
though he neglected
to mention said cousin
was a drunkard and a fool.
Good day. Uncle John.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
[light music plays]
♪ ♪
Welcome home. [chuckles]
What have ye done. lad?
What is this?
Built yer house for ye.
-Our house?
-[Young Ian] Aye.
I took the plans ye made
before you left.
Called everyone together--
the Beardsleys.
the-the Lindsays.
and some of yer
other Ardsmuir men.
Tore down the stables
and used that lumber
for the start.
And then when folk got word
of what we were about.
they'd come by with wood or
furnishings they could spare.
even jes' to lend a hand.
-[Jamie] A Dhia.
-[Young Ian chuckles]
[sighs]
Ian. oh. it's beautiful.
[Young Ian]
Dinna worry. Auntie.
I've staked out
a wee garden for ye.
[Claire] Oh.
I thought I heard voices.
[Claire] Rachel.
[gasps] Look at you.
You're glowing.
-How are you?
-I'm well.
Now. would you like
to see thy house?
Iain Oig. Moran taing dhut.
You're very welcome. Uncle.
♪ ♪
[door opens]
Well? What do you think?
[chuckles]
[Claire gasps. chuckles]
-[Young Ian chuckles]
-[Claire] Wow. Ian.
[Rachel chuckles]
-[Jamie] Ah.
-[Young Ian] It's not just me.
[chuckles] A lot of hands.
Just like I imagined.
These are from the stables.
[Claire] Look at this view.
[Young Ian]
Aye. it's a beautiful spot.
[Claire] Oh. it's fantastic.
Kitchen.
♪ ♪
Ken ye need plenty of light
for yer surgeries.
so I made the south-facing
windows nice and big.
And I built the table from
memory.
Hope it's the proper height.
Is it to thy liking. Claire?
I don't know what to say.
[Rachel and Young Ian chuckle]
♪ ♪
[Claire] Where did you get
all these things?
Oh. some I found when we passed
through Wilmington.
The rest is from
the new trading post--
Hiram Crombie's. running down
by the meeting house.
Oh. Ian. Rachel. this is...
-this is so thoughtful.
-[Young Ian chuckles]
I'm so overwhelmed.
Well. I'd be lying if I said
I wasna a wee bit selfish
in putting this together.
seeing as I have yer first
two patients right here.
Well. I promise I will take
very. very good care
of them both.
♪ ♪
Ah. here are the plans.
Frances...
have a look upstairs.
[grunting]
What do ye think
of this room. Frances?
It's nice. Mr. Fraser.
So. um. ye wouldna
be disappointed
if I were to tell ye I was
thinking it should be yours?
[chuckles]
I could build you an. uh--
an armoire over here
for your clothes
and a-a wee chair to sit
and read...
if you like.
You mean a whole room
of my own?
If it suits ye.
It suits me well.
[distant bird calling.
insects chirping]
[door closes]
The shape of you
in the moonlight. Sassenach...
you look just as ye did
the night we made our Faith.
You know when
she was conceived?
-Aye.
-I don't even know that.
Ah. well. I may be wrong.
of course. but...
[Claire] Hmm.
...I always thought
it was the night
ye first told me ye loved me...
...in the Laird's chamber.
Lallybroch.
Ye were standing
near the window.
The moon was streaming in
just so.
as I came to ye.
[sentimental music plays]
♪ ♪
[Claire] Mm.
You told me...
that you wanted me from
the first time you ever saw me.
[Jamie] Mm.
Had something to do
with my hard head...
-Mm-hmm.
-...and my round arse.
Hmm. so you do recall
the occasion.
-Hmm?
-[both chuckle]
♪ ♪
How do you know that was
the night Faith was conceived?
I wanted ye.
I had to have ye.
And once I was inside ye.
I'd have been content if that
was the last thing I ever felt.
[sighs]
Then we started...
and I kent a piece of myself
would be inside you forever...
...'cause I was giving you
a child.
♪ ♪
[light music plays]
[indistinct chatter]
[bird squawks]
♪ ♪
When Ian told me
Crombie had a trading post.
I didn't expect all this.
♪ ♪
[distant dog barking]
[Amy] Mr. and Mrs. Fraser.
Boys.
We'd just heard word
of your return.
Amy.
Oh. it's so good
to see you again.
Mrs. McCallum
and wee Aidan and Orrie.
Not so wee anymore. eh. lads?
[chuckles] Thank you.
And. uh. my name is not
McCallum anymore either.
It's Lindsay now. [laughs]
Evan!
Mac Dubh!
Evan.
Congratulations
on your new family.
Dinna ken you had it in ye.
I'm over the moon.
Couldna be happier.
And thank you so much for
all your help with the house.
No need.
The both of ye would have done
the same thing
for any one of us.
Beam by beam.
it was like a little prayer.
calling you home.
Either my eyes deceive me
or the Frasers have come back.
I bid ye both welcome.
It's quite an establishment
you have here. Mr. Crombie.
[chuckles]
Well. the Bible instructs us
to use our gifts to serve
one another as stewards
of the grace of God.
I've discovered that I'm quite
gifted in procuring things
that people need.
like this fabric.
Will it do for ye.
Mrs. Lindsay?
That'll do nicely. thank ye.
May I acquaint you
with our enterprise?
So good to see you again.
[indistinct chatter]
[Hiram]
We have many fine fabrics.
and these just arrived.
And here ye'll find the tools
of yer trade. Mrs. Fraser.
Oh.
It'll be so nice not to have
to send to Woolam's Creek
for some of these.
You don't happen to have any
Jesuit bark hidden somewhere?
That's another name
for cinchona bark. is it not?
[chuckles softly] It is.
Mrs. Beardsley was asking
for the very same thing
just yesterday.
We shall have to procure some.
Mr. Crombie.
I-I was actually looking for it
to make a tonic for her.
Ah.
I dinna believe
we have the pleasure
-of your acquaintance. sir.
-Oh. forgive me.
This is
Captain Charles Cunningham.
He is my partner
in this endeavor.
Captain. these are the Frasers.
newly returned.
General and Mrs. Fraser.
I'm so pleased
to finally meet you.
It's been rather strange
for my mother and I to live
on this land.
never having met its owners.
Uh. partners. ye say?
When I arrived
on Fraser's Ridge.
it seemed a bit of commerce
might do some good.
As fate would have it.
Mr. Crombie
had been having
similar thoughts.
Ah. but not the means
to put them into action.
I had a small pension to
contribute to his inspiration.
Still. he is modest
in calling us partners.
Mr. Crombie does the work.
I am merely content
to sit at my desk
and help out when I can.
Well. I thank you both.
It seems you've achieved
a-a great deal in our absence.
[Cunningham]
And I thank you. General.
for this place
my mother and I are
so fortunate to call home.
Now. if you'll pardon me.
I was on my way out.
I will accompany you. if I may.
Have you follow me.
Mrs. Fraser.
Yes. actually. Mr. Crombie...
[indistinct chatter]
Captain. I must invite you
to call me Mr. Fraser.
Having resigned my commission
following
the Battle of Monmouth. I...
I have no further association
with the Continental Army.
Well. that's modest
of you. sir.
I've usually found that any man
who's held a military post
of any pretension
clings to his title for life.
[chuckles] No. mine was merely
a temporary appointment.
But I do ken there are many
fine officers who deserve
to retain their titles after
long and honorable service.
I'm sure that's the case
wi' you. Captain.
Well. yes. uh. you are correct
that I'm retired.
though I prefer to retain
the appellation of captain
less as a measure of honor
and more because I've never
much liked the name Charles.
[Jamie chuckles]
Although. in all honesty.
after thirty years
serving in His Majesty's Army.
I suppose I'm simply
used to it.
[chuckles]
You fought for the king. then?
Yes.
But I laid down my sword
for good
after the Battle
of Bemis Heights.
I understand you. too.
were at Saratoga.
Aye.
♪ ♪
And we would have been
on opposite sides
of the same battlefield.
[sighs]
War is a terrible thing.
I am most happy
to be done wi' it.
♪ ♪
How did you come
to settle here on the Ridge?
Ah. like a good many others.
I came to North Carolina
because I had
acquaintances here.
Two of my former officers
are from Salisbury.
I visited their families.
and then I walked until my legs
could carry me no farther.
until I found a place beautiful
enough to bring me some peace.
And here I was.
♪ ♪
[Claire] Cunningham
is a charming fellow.
And he's certainly gained some
influence while we were away.
Ah. Aye. it'd be wise
to ken him better.
That would be
the prudent thing to do...
especially since
he's a redcoat.
He's retired. like me.
Says he's done wi' the war.
I have no reason not to take
the man at his word.
though...
I do wonder if the war
is done with him.
Well. I suppose
someone could wonder
the same thing about you.
[chuckles] Trust me. Sassenach.
I'm done...
whether the war
likes it or no'.
[clicks tongue]
[shell cracking]
[clang]
[spoon clatters]
[William groaning]
[glass thuds]
[Lord John Grey] The hair of the
dog that bit you.
Good God. what is that?
The recipe is proprietary.
but the results
cannot be argued with.
Drink up.
I am due to dine
with General Prévost
in an hour.
Perhaps you'd care
to accompany me?
His cook is far superior
to mine.
And despite
an unfortunate lack of humor.
the man is a decent soldier.
Ambitious.
I know what you are doing.
It will not work.
Frankly. I'm surprised
you're trying to entice me
back into the army.
considering
how opposed you were
to my joining
in the first place.
Idleness and wallowing
do not suit you. William.
And though it was
dreadfully unfortunate.
the British Army
is not to blame
for what happened
to Ms. Pocock.
[pensive music plays]
♪ ♪
No.
I swore to protect her.
I am to blame...
and that devil of a turncoat.
Richardson.
I. too. want Richardson
to pay for his actions.
And he will.
But there are ways
to go about it
that perhaps entail
less drinking oneself
into oblivion
night after night.
Well. if you're truly finished
with the army.
perhaps it is time
you returned to England...
although it would pain me
to part with you again so soon.
You've attained your majority.
and therefore you can manage
your estates.
My steward is doing
a more than adequate job.
Your steward is not the ninth
Earl of Ellesmere. William.
-You are.
-By way of cuckoldry and a lie.
[Lord John]
Well. be that as it may.
your mother was married
to the eighth Earl of Ellesmere
at the time of your birth.
Therefore. the title
is yours by law.
And how does one go about
renouncing a title?
You cannot.
You mean I shall not.
No. you cannot!
♪ ♪
A peerage is the gift
of a grateful monarch.
There are no means set down
in law for renouncing it.
A monarch
who ceases to be grateful
can strip a peer of his title.
though the only grounds
for that which come to mind
are engaging in rebellion
against the crown.
Treason.
Betrayal of your king
and country
hardly seems like
a suitable means
of solving
your personal difficulties.
It might be easier...
to ask what you want to do.
rather than asking
how not to do what you don't.
It might be easier
to know what I want to do
if I knew who I bloody was.
♪ ♪
At a certain point.
I suppose it is up to you
to decide who you want to be
and to act accordingly.
Whether you choose
to call yourself Ransom.
Fraser. or Grey.
no man with any claim
to your parentage
would tolerate the way you
treated Lady Grey yesterday.
That is something
I insist you remedy.
♪ ♪
[bees buzzing]
I canna say bees are the most
traditional homecoming gift.
but it's very thoughtful
of ye. Lizzie.
Well. I've always wanted
my own hive. so thank you.
We'll. uh. build
a proper home for them
some safe distance
from the house.
I'm so glad
to have you both back.
[Jamie] As soon as there's
a fresh bit of honey.
we'll bring some over for you
and Kezzie and Josiah.
[Lizzie chuckles]
[chuckles] So lovely
to see you again. Lizzie.
and so good to meet you.
my little namesake. wee Claire.
[chuckles] Go to Mama.
We'll see you both again soon.
Aye.
Bees--
very sociable and curious.
which only makes sense.
going back and forth all day.
sharing news wi' their pollen.
-That's one way to put it.
-Hmm.
Did ye ken that bees are
the link between our world
and the spirit world?
That's why ye tell them
what's happening.
-You do?
-Aye.
If someone should come to visit
or a new bairn should be born
or a settler
should depart or die.
you dinna tell the bees.
they'll take offense.
and all of them
will just fly away.
We can't have that.
then. can we?
[chuckles]
[light music plays]
♪ ♪
[Roger] Hello. the house!
[sentimental music plays]
♪ ♪
Ah!
Oh. Oh.
[Jemmy] Grandda!
[laughing]
Jeremiah. you've grown so tall.
[Jemmy] Grandda!
That's your granny and grandpa.
[crying] Is it really you?
God. I've missed you.
-Oh. darling.
-[laughter]
This is Mandy.
Mandy.
Look at you.
[Jamie] I canna believe it.
We never thought
we'd see you again.
-What are you doing here?
-We wanted to come home.
[laughter]
Jem.
[laughing] Roger. Oh.
It doesna matter now. lass.
You're here.
-We all are.
-[laughter]
♪ ♪
Our house is yer house.
Ye ken that well enough.
Ye can stay here till we build
you one of yer own.
-[Fanny] You're very pretty.
-[Mandy] Thank you.
Fanny is so sweet with Mandy.
How did she come to be
living with you?
Oh. she's a wee orphan lass.
Your brother took her
under his protection.
entrusted her to us.
William?
Does that mean he knows
that you're his father?
He does.
[Brianna] Ah.
Take it he's not too happy
about that.
Doesn't appear so.
Give him time.
[Mandy] Mummy. read me a story.
Uh. what's the magic word?
[Mandy] Please?
What do you think?
Why not?
-[Brianna] Go get him.
-[Jamie chuckles]
Ye brought a book
for the bairns.
Read to me. Grandda. please?
[Jamie] Ah. all right.
[sighs] Let's see.
[chuckles. clears throat]
[light music plays]
Oh.
It's like a painting.
Eh.
♪ ♪
"In the great green room.
"there was a telephone
and a red balloon
"and a picture of...
the cow jumping over the moon."
[chuckles]
Eh. yeah. "and-and-and
there were three little bears
sitting on chairs."
Well. a bear's likely to eat
a chair than sit on one.
and all three of them together
make a meal
of anyone close by
wanting to count 'em.
[all chuckling]
A lovely bit of nonsense.
I feel like I ken it.
Because I told you
about it years ago.
when we were on a ship
to Jamaica
-and I was missing Bree.
-Mm.
Why don't you all go
and finish the book
in the other room
while the adults chat. hmm?
Jem. you can read it to them.
♪ ♪
I hope it's all right
Fanny saw that book.
She won't know
it's modern. will she?
Oh. she's certainly never
seen anything like it.
But I'm sure it's fine.
This one is for you.
-[Claire] Oh. Bree.
-[Brianna] Mm.
Oh.
Oh. it's marvelous.
Let me see. mo nighean donn.
-[Claire chuckles]
-[Jamie] Hmm.
The Merck Manual.
13th edition--
popular writer.
Either that or he's made
a devil lot of mistakes.
-It's a medical book.
-[Jamie] Mm.
"Controlling the spread
of E. histolytica
requires prevention of access
of human feces to the mouth."
Mm.
It's. uh. what folk
have learned about healing.
I'm guessing you ken
not to eat shite.
-[laughter]
-Yes. darling.
I can't begin to imagine
what they've discovered
since I left.
And I think you will like
this one. Da.
[Jamie] Ah.
-You like it?
-Thank you.
Frodo Baggins.
Eh. a Welshman.
[laughs] No.
-Not--not exactly.
-Ah.
That's one of Jem's favorites--
mine too. actually.
I think the tale
might speak to you.
Thank you kindly.
[pensive music plays]
♪ ♪
Are you a minister. Roger Mac.
-in the future?
-Hmm.
No.
No. I was. uh--
I was so full of doubt
after everything that happened.
But. uh. well.
now that we're back...
Whatever you decide. new folk
have settled on the Ridge
since you left.
You should go about.
introduce yourself.
There's a man by the name
of Cunningham.
He helped open
the new trading post.
I'd be curious to ken
what ye might think of him.
anything ye might learn.
Aye.
[Brianna] She was
on antibiotics for a while.
had a few checkups.
but other than that...
Children are remarkable.
Listening to her heart.
you'd never have known
anything was wrong.
[Brianna]
Kids are finally asleep.
Thank God.
I still canna believe it.
the sight of you here.
We weren't even sure
if the letters would reach ye
when we left them at the bank.
There was a--well. uh.
an inheritance. I suppose.
We thought you should ken
what had become of us.
We'd never have dreamed
you'd have used them
to find your way back to us.
To coming home.
-To family.
-[glasses clinking]
Slainté.
I. uh... [clears throat]
...I brought back another book.
I didn't want to show it
in front of the kids. but...
[pensive music plays]
Soul of a Rebel:
Scottish Roots
of the American Revolution
by Franklin W. Randall. PhD.
[sighs] Um. it's the research
Daddy was doing before he died.
It was published
after we had both left.
Did ye find it useful?
I started to open it. but...
I couldn't even get
past the jacket.
I knew that if I read it.
it would.
uh. feel like
losing him all over again.
Same with your letters.
actually.
We. uh--we spaced them out.
because as long as there were
still unopened ones.
you were still alive.
♪ ♪
Something must have happened...
for you to come back
middle of a war.
Aye...
something happened.
A lot of things.
I suppose. uh.
there's something
we need to tell you. too...
about Fanny and your sister...
Faith.
♪ ♪
[birds chirping]
[exhales sharply]
Lady Grey.
I owe you an apology.
When you first came
upon me yesterday.
I'd only just learned
of my cousin's passing.
I was in shock.
Still. that is no excuse
for my ungentlemanly behavior.
I beg your forgiveness for it.
Well. I suppose I was not
altogether kind either.
I tend to have rather
a sharp tongue when piqued.
You had every reason.
We did marry rather in haste.
Benjamin wrote to tell
his father of the union.
but the letter appears
to have gone astray. so...
I suppose a modicum
of skepticism
is to be expected.
You have my deepest sympathies
on the loss
of your husband. madam.
Thank you.
And you. on the loss
of your cousin.
I beg your pardon.
I'm a bit overcome
with emotion.
Quite understandable.
given the circumstances.
[baby babbling]
Hmm. [chuckles]
Oh. he likes being outside.
-[baby fusses]
-Fresh air calms him.
[baby squeals happily]
He looks quite like Benjamin.
I hope I don't give you pain
by saying so.
No.
No. it's a reminder
of the love that bore him.
I suppose
that's some consolation.
[sentimental music plays]
I do not have any siblings.
Ben and Henry were
like brothers to me.
He said as much about you.
And. perhaps.
when Trevor is older.
you can tell him
of his father. man-to-man.
♪ ♪
It pains me that
he'll have no memory of him...
...no knowledge of who
he was in the world.
[William chuckles]
♪ ♪
I promise. I shall do
all I can for Trevor...
...and for you. Lady Grey.
♪ ♪
[gunshot. animal squeaks]
[Jamie] This Robert Cameron
read our letters. ye said.
[Brianna] Yes.
[Jamie] Then he not only kens
about the Jacobite gold.
but he knows where we live.
when we live.
What's to stop him
coming after you?
Nothing. if he can time-travel.
But if he could. then
why hasn't he done it already?
No sane man canna guess
the mind of a mad one.
[sighing] Well...
we figured if no time
is completely safe.
then we'd rather
all be together.
I canna believe
I put wee Jeremiah in danger.
As soon as we're back at
the house. I'll move the gold.
That way.
if Cameron does come looking.
he'll have no way to find it.
save through me.
[Brianna] My God.
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
I know there are brands
for thieves. but what is GR?
George Rex.
King George.
These men were hanged
for being Loyalists?
There are devils
on both sides of this war.
♪ ♪
Where is your father. child?
I don't know.
This is Esmerelda.
Eh.
I wish to speak to your father.
[Mandy] Look...
♪ Frère Jacques.
Frère Jacques ♪
-♪ Dormez-vous? Dormez-vous? ♪
-Stop that.
-Look at me.
-Why?
You are
a very impertinent child.
And your father
should beat you.
You look like the Wicked Witch.
Fly away on your broom.
[gasps]
What in the name of perdition
do you mean by that?
You wicked child!
Fly away on your broom.
you mean old lady.
Aah! That really hurt.
♪ ♪
Leave my house.
The girl spoke
to me rudely. sir.
and I will not have it.
Evidently. no one has sought
to discipline her correctly.
so no wonder.
Speaking of rudeness.
I don't believe I've had
the honor of your acquaintance.
I'm Claire Fraser.
My son mentioned
you were looking for this.
♪ ♪
You are all undoubtedly
going to hell.
♪ ♪
Who the devil was that?
The Wicked Witch of the West.
I hate her.
Hmm.
Oh. Jesus H. Roosevelt Christ.
[sighs]
She's brought me Jesuit bark.
Well. in that case.
I think perhaps that witch
was Mrs. Cunningham.
♪ ♪
[distant bird calling]
[Randall] Is it my face you see
looming in the darkness?
Why'd ye not tell me
that Frank Randall
looked like Black Jack?
[sighs]
I haven't thought about that
in a very long time.
[sighs] I-I remember being
startled by the resemblance.
but...
once I was acquainted
with Black Jack.
that quickly wore off...
because they were so different.
Ye should have told me.
I suppose I should have. but--
but at first. how could
I have explained that to you?
And then after. well. I--
I didn't know how.
[sighs]
I thought
you might have been upset
that I had married someone
who looked so much like
Black Jack Randall.
I might have been upset.
There'd have been no point.
You are mine.
[chuckles]
Was he an honest man?
Frank?
For the most part.
He kept secrets.
but then again. so did I.
Can I trust him. do ye think?
-About what he's written?
-He was an historian.
He wouldn't write something
that he knew to be false.
Why?
Because he mentions my name.
Fourteen times so far.
♪ ♪
You're in the book?
Aye.
What does it say?
That war is coming
to the backcountry.
He says there'll be a battle
in about a year's time
at a place called
King's Mountain...
and that James Fraser
dies in it.
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪